# Cowboys

Introduction
The Dallas Cowboys, a National Football League team owned by Jerry Jones, are the most valuable sports franchise in the world, even when compared to sports teams from different sports, from different countries.  The Cowboys consistently sell over 10,000 more tickets than there are seats that are available at AT&T stadium for every home game.  Economic theory would tell us that without competitive balancing measures taken by the NFL, just based on the size of the franchise, the Cowboys should win nearly every game.  They would have the most funds to spend on coaches, star players, athletic trainers, and facilities.  With such a loyal fanbase, the Cowboys have the largest budget of any sports team in the world.  Thanks to regulation by the NFL, there is more variation in the outcomes of games. I believe, however, that the Cowboys, being the largest sports franchise in the world, would still have a competitive edge even with considerable competitive balancing.  The Cowboys have been on a downward trend, especially considering the 2020 season.
Graph 1: Season Win Percent from 2016-2020

The 2021 season seems to be more promising.  The Cowboys currently have an 85.7%-win percentage for the season.  However, excluding the 2020 season, because of the pandemic and because their starting quarterback was injured for the season, there was still a downward trend from 2016 to 2019.  These were seasons that I expected to be relatively successful.

Graph 2: Win Percent for Season from 2016-2019 Season

	There is something amiss about this trend.  The Cowboys’ management must be overlooking some critical component to the game if the team with the most resources is on a downward trend since recruiting a quarterback with a relatively, consistently high quarterback rating.  There are other positions and star players that I believe influence the outcome of the game however the quarterback seems to have the greatest effect.  The Cowboys also lost by more in the 2017, 2018, and 2020 seasons than in 2016.  Graph 3 shows the difference between points scored and points allowed, indicating how much the Cowboys won or lost by each game.  The spread widens in 2017, 2018, and 2020 from 2016.  Games in those years were more likely to be landslide victories or losses.  Both 2016 and 2019 appear to be relatively good seasons for the Cowboys, and the spread appears to be smaller. 

Graph 3: Difference Between Points Scored and Points Allowed

  In this study, I wish to find the factors that contribute to the outcome of a Cowboys game primarily because I am curious to see if there is something that Jerry Jones is overlooking or if the NFL is truly sufficient at balancing the league.  The team is on a downward trend, and I believe that something must be done to improve the current trajectory of the team’s winning ability.  I would like to know if there is anything that can be done by the team management to improve the odds of winning a game, or if the outcome is random enough that you might as well flip a coin to predict a win or a loss.  I would also like to understand why the spread between points scored and points allowed is so large in seasons with more losses.  In addition, if this model can indeed accurately predict the outcome of a game, then the model could potentially be a useful tool for sports betting.  Potentially, other teams could also benefit from such an analysis and football could become more competitive overall.
